So in JSI 90, there is quite a bit going on here and there's a lot of outstanding questions that the client is still working through. But I do want to get started on this story. So we can build out a lot of the framework and then we can add to it as the questions are answered from the client perspective. So there are largely 2 big things in this story. The 1st is engagement planning. I would like to use the NPSP standards for engagement plans. Meaning, create some of those engagement plan templates, assign some tasks to those templates and then be able to assign them to contacts. Now the client has not decided what their different engagement plan templates will be, so I just like to start by enabling all of this, getting it on the record pages where it needs to go, and then creating some place holder tasks or example tasks just so they can see how it will work and they can. Design their own templates as they need to. For this part of it, I would like to keep it pretty close to the NPSP standards, but I do want to do some research in terms of how this should be set up, how it should look on the pages, what pages it should land on and etcetera like that. I do want to keep it in the same styling of pages that we've tended to use so far in this org. The next part of the story is the moves management or the levels part of it. In this I don't necessarily want to use anything that is in NPSP by default. I would rather design my own for this. For this particular part of the story we're gonna have to do some deep research and I do have a few ideas to go along with it. For the levels, there will be multiple different giving levels that donors qualify based on their giving for the year. Two examples that they have are what they call Congressional level and then the Senate level. We can start with the congressional level being anything from 5000 to 10,000 dollars and then Senate level being $10,000 and greater. These levels are not confirmed and the levels will need to be configurable so they can add different level levels. We'll name them whatever they want to and then set the different. Umm, monetary levels that go with those different tags for? The qualification, as I said, it should be based on the giving that the individual has. So we will need to build a gift association between the opportunity and the. Giving. Status or giving level for that particular individual the. Opportunity should have a hard credit that is associated with that junction object and we should also be able to create soft credits that go to the yearly giving level accumulation object so that we can track hard credits and soft credits as term in terms of how it qualifies them for the different giving levels. The way I have always thought about this is to automatically create a record for every donor at the start of each fiscal year, which in this case is July 1st and that will be there. Record that indicates what they're giving level is and it will have. It will basically serve as a junction object between that donor and the gifts that are credited to that donor that year. It will keep a running total of where they are and it will have their level labeled on it. In the past I've called this something along the lines of annual giving summary or something along those lines, and again, it should serve as a junction. That's wrong. It should not serve as a junction. It should be something that accumulates the giving. And there should be a separate junction object that is the Gift allocation record. That should be the connection between that annual giving summary record and the opportunity record itself. I do want to verify this and do research on other ways that this has been done or the best ways that this has been done in the nonprofit Other big considerations here are that this is not all finalized with the client in terms of what their levels will be exactly but this should give a rough starting place in a framework for how we can build on top of it.  In terms of how we count and assign the status of each annual giving summary as I mentioned it should be based on the total giving for that fiscal year but there is a couple of things that are important to know about this if somebody gives $5000 in a fiscal year they will be at the congressional level and they should maintain that level for the duration of the fiscal year in which they achieved it and they will maintain that level for the next fiscal year a lot of times when I've designed this in the past we have to link these annual giving summaries to each other so when we create the next fiscal year on July 1st we link it to the previous one so we know what their previous level is so they inherit that level for the next fiscal year as well so for example if somebody gives $5000 and they give their 5 thousandth dollar on November 25th of one fiscal year they achieve that congressional status they will have it for the remainder of the fiscal year on July 1st a new annual giving summary will be created they will still be Congressional at that point and they'll maintain it through the next fiscal year if they don't achieve congressional at that next fiscal year then the following 1 they will drop down to that basic level which is anything from one to $5000 The client would also like an override of that so if somebody does not achieve a certain level they should be able to override the giving level status and set whatever they want O if for example somebody knows of a particular donor that has been in a particular situation and they want to give them an extra year at their current status or something like that they should be able to override it and those overrides should not carry forward into the next year a user will have to override the next year if they want to override it again.  On each annual giving summary we should be rolling up the total hard credits and total soft credits we should be calculating a total value based on that and we should maintain the date at which they've given the dollar that pushed them into their current level so for example if somebody gives $4000 between July 1st and May 18th and then on May 19th they write a $1000 check that pushes them over that $5000 step we should tag them with that May 19th date as the date in which they achieved that level if we if they give another time before the end of the fiscal year stay in June 3rd they give 5000 more dollars and they achieve the Senate level we should be tracking that date as well again it should be the date that pushes them over the total value that achieves that level it's probably cleaner if we have N number of date fields that we can track where they have a date that they got the congressional level a date that they got the Senate level and so on and so forth Admins will need to know that they will have to create a new date field should they have additional levels.

Other items in this story are the definition of down items for major gift opportunity we already have that we also have tasks so we don't need to worry about that we should have something created as part of this story that is an assigned gift officer so that should be a junction between a user and a contact where we assign a internal user to be the gift officer we can just label that object something along the lines of A Staff assignment or Gift officer assignment and we can ignore the reports that are part of the definition of done for now and ignore the dashboard that is in the definition of done for now.

I WANT THE BEST RESEARCH AND PLANNING WE HAVE EVER DONE FOR THIS STORY!!!!!


Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.