OK so the story for jsi 107 is the first of the constant contact integration stories and this one I really want to spend a lot of time analyzing what they need and whether or not we should use the standard integration offered by constant contact in sales force or whether or not we should build a custom integration using the constant contact API I have provided the documentation that I copy and pasted off constant contact website for the standard integration and that can be found in the document that is referenced below I also have access to the API guide both the guide and all of their keys that I can provide if you can't find it via the website that is linked below or if that website is JavaScript locked to take a lot of time and go through their requirements and then compare them to what is offered in the standard integration their requirements are relatively simple right now we should just mainly be syncing lists back and forth and we need to make sure that it is bidirectional that anybody who opts out or changes any information turn on the constant contact side in the subscription center is synced back into Salesforce we also want to make sure that we can see their subscription settings on the Salesforce side and we want to be able to see some deliverabilities statistics in the Salesforce side as well whether or not they're received emails opened things like that do the research on this and then come up with the implementation plan as we typically do.

C:\Users\jott3\Documents\SF-Local\JCRC-Dev\JSI-107\ConstantContactDocumentation.MD
https://developer.constantcontact.com/api_guide/index.html

Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.