This story is very much the same as JSI 50. I just want to review all of the Documentation that we have for this story, including the story itself and the definition of Done items, and I want to check that up against what we've already done as well as the Constant Contact functionality just to make sure this is already configured and complete as part of the other stories. I don't think that we need to create or have the messages that are sent via Constant Contacts show up in the Activity timeline. I think that was just some kind of definition of Done item that was given from an AI generated list of user stories. I think what we have with the email. Activity related list on the contact should suffice for that functionality. But everything else I want you just to double check and make sure we have this all accounted for and there's nothing for implementation If there is, we can proceed with an implementation plan. Otherwise we will close this out as not for implementation.

Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.