This story is a little bit light on details, but I still want to proceed with an implementation and start to plan it out. There may be some additional things that come out from the client and I will add that to the story as additional details and prompt when it is time to work on those. But for the most part in this story all I want to do is make sure we have a really well functioning clean grant opportunity record type. It should be a record type, it should have its own lightning record page and I want to make sure we include the standard grant functionality that is. Included in NPSP on that. Lightning Record page, so that would include the Deliverables object and that would include a Deliverables related list on the Grant Lightning Record page. I want to use the same thing that we've always used in all of our Lightning Record pages, which is the dynamic related list, single component. And I want to make sure that that related list has very helpful fields on it and I want to make sure that we create that Deliverables Lightning Record page as well So that I can go in and activate it and users can see those deliverables. I do want to check on what automation is included in NPSP in terms of how those deliverables interact with and or sync with a user's tasks. So that part is going to require some research and some write up and we will make some decisions on if we want to build any additional information or automation on top of that. Also, I want you to use the Definition of Done to come up with a sales process for the grant record type on Opportunity. It should be as the definition of Done mentions identification. Request response. And then we should go into those closed one stages that we have in other items, the data funding type of program, program officer and things like that. Those are fields not stages. So just keep that in mind

Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.