The JSI 84 story is actually pretty self explanatory and should be mostly contained within the NPSP. Existing functionality. There are a few things that will need to be built on this and added to the pages. To start with the stock, this is going to be a securities record type, so I just renamed stock to securities that satisfies that need on that particular type of gift will need to track the things that are mentioned in the definition of done, such as number of shares, ticker symbol, date received, the valuation method, the amount of the opportunity for those security should be the value at which the. Security is liquidated and we should make sure that we have the tax section on that record pages well, because that will be important for any kind of liquidated security. For in Kind gifts, we will want to note what the in kind gift is. So there will be an important description field. There will also want a fair market value field to be on the page that should be already part of the NPSP field list. And then we'll also want to make sure that the. In kind, gifts are not rolled up to the contact and account because they're they're not cash value gifts. They are just there to record different types of participation and engagement with the organization. 

The part of the definition done that mentions acknowledgement templates that will be handled in a separate story. We don't need to consider that for this implementation plan. And the support of our business policy is that we cash the stock the same day. Item in the definition of done is simply a statement of fact. It does not need to be included in the implementation plan for this story. That is just referencing that the client in this case whenever they receive a securities gift, they liquidate upon receipt of that. They don't hold out or do any kind of financial management or brokerage of that securities gift. You do not need to do anything with that definition of done item. 

I would like to create a couple of reports so that the client can see their securities gifts as well as separate reports so that they can see their in kind gifts. And in general on this, I do think that we need to do some research to make sure this is kind of how industry standards. Handle these kind of in kind guess and securities gifts and build a couple of just general industry standard reports for these. We don't need to go crazy on them. We don't need to build a ton of different reports as these are the least common types of gifts. So we just want to have something so that the client can see what it is they can do with the reporting on these types of gifts. 

Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.