So this story doesn't have a lot of detail from the original stories and requirements document that we built everything off of. So I'm going to articulate in this document what this story should function, and the task for this will be to first create the user story in the same format as all of the other ones, create a logical definition of done, sync that to the. Story in Jira that has the story key JSI 122. Then we will do the same process that we've done for all of the other stories where we pull down the information from JIRA and start working on it. 

Here are the specs that we really need for this story. The idea behind this is the ability to tag a contact or an account with any sort of tag that's in this system. The tags should be categorized, so there should be a list of different categories that A tag can be under, and it can be applied to a contact or an account. User should have a really clean interface for entering these. We don't necessarily need to stick to the standard sales force page layouts or anything. We can create a lightning page or LWC or aura or anything that we need to so that we can embed it on a lightning record page and make it work really well. When users go to add new tags, they should be able to type in the tag that they are looking for and should be able to see the tag if it already exists in the system and the category that it's in and they should be able to apply it to that contact or account. If the tag that they're searching for does not exist, they should be able to create it and apply it to the contact or account. At the same time, we also want to be able to create reports for different tags so you can see all of the people or accounts that are tagged with a specific value. 

The rough architecture that I have used for this type of scenario in the past is creating two different objects, 1 to store the tags that we reuse over and over again and 12. Store the association between that tag and the contact or account. 

Review all of these details and go ahead and start Describing the user story and Definition of Done in the same manner of all of our other stories and push it to jira.