The story for acknowledgments has quite a few things that are outstanding with the clients and things that they will make decisions on such as what the templates look like and everything, as well as what the various configurable rules are for when each template gets sent, such as gift levels or gift types and things like that. That's all pending with the client. I do want to start building the framework for this so it is ready as a plug and play for. When they have their information that they can provide to us. The acknowledgments will be Done a little bit differently, but also using some of the standard NPSP functionality. I want to be able to utilize both email templates for when the gift level or gift type. Dictates that an email acknowledgement will be used, but I would also like to be able to. Have templates for printable acknowledgement letters that they will print and hard sign or mail to the donors as the again type or and or. Amount comes in to do the. Paper acknowledge or the the printable acknowledgements. I've done this in the past for other works and I've put some examples in this story folder JSI 87 in the subfolder called examples. Basically what I do here is I have a screen flow that I will embed on the lightning record page. That screen flow renders the template. I just use things like the screen and I use text templates and Things of that nature to add the pictures, images, formatting and text onto the page. And then I have a. Visual force component that allows them to click a print button and it will just print the screen flow basically. I think that's also a little bit backwards. I think I actually embed the. Screen flow onto a visual force page and then I put the visual force page on the lightning record page. But you can check the examples to see exactly how I do that. The point is that the visual force page has a print button so that they can print the. Acknowledgement template as they see it. I would like to build a framework for this so we can use a couple of different acknowledgement templates. I will use leave it up to you to create some templates that are relevant and maybe do a couple for different types of gifts and or different levels of gifts. So like anything less than $100, anything between 100 and 500 and so on. All I'm looking for right now is just some template place holders that we can use to show in a demo And. Used to test to make sure the acknowledgment is working. I also want to have the emails for some of the lower level gifts, so that could be anything in that one to one hundred dollar range and I want to use the standard email templates. I will allow you to go ahead and create a couple of different email templates for that as well the way that I want to Handle the routing of these is through a master flow that will allow for the configuration of the if then rules and the different paths to either send an email or just. Have the screen for the user to print the acknowledgement. I do wanna come up with some way that if the user does print the acknowledgement, not only are they printing it by clicking the print button, but they have the ability to set the acknowledgement status to acknowledge and the acknowledgement date is automatically stamped. I will let you go through the other aspects of the story, but do know that a lot of the acknowledgement templates and rules are still pending with the client and a lot of the items that are in the definition of done were just generic standard items that in. LLM helped the client come up with and they're not directly buildable. Take your time and go through this and make sure we do it right. Review the examples, make sure that they all make sense, and come up with a game plan for review before we actually implement anything


Examples:
C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\JSI-87\Examples

Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.