This story is going to mean that we are going to have to change what we did for JSI 107 and that the story mentions that we want to have the email activity on the contact record and we want to have details. The Definition of Done has a few items that just reference the most recent email activity in 90 days and so on and so forth. But I don't want to get lost in having so many summary fields that are difficult to maintain or difficult to report on in text. So I just think at this point we need to bring in All of the email details that are in Constant Contact and we can bring them over on our regularly scheduled poll that we are currently operating on. So for this story, I want to do the exact same process that we have been doing, pull all of the story information, but I want to make sure that we build out the structure and sales force so that we can host this email engagement activity that we're bringing in. I'd like to use a custom object for that, so I'm thinking something along the lines of an email. Object which is storing like each individual email that the. Client is going to send in Constant contact that should have a look up to Campaign And that look up should be populated with the campaign out of constant contact. If that is synced in as well, we might also need a secondary look up to Campaign to associate the email with the email list. So something along the lines of like a newsletter being associated with a newsletter list that is stored in sales force on that. CC list record type. I think the child object for this email object will be the email activity and that will basically be the link to the contact. So every contact that receives an email on that email blast will have a record in there will have A to have things like status, open click, number of Open State, Open date click. Any of that information that we have available to us in Constant Contact, I think we should sync that onto the record. I don't want to add a new record for every time somebody clicks an email, just a summary record that keeps. That particular contact's activity on that particular email? Up to date. Do a deep dive through all of this. Do a deep dive through all of the constant contact API documentation, and let's start building this story

Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.