This is the dictated notes for my understanding of JSI 85 which has to do with soft credits and multi party gifts. The story should largely be captured with NPSP functionality. We should have the ability to use the Relationships object to automatically create soft credits for different household members like spouses. We should also have the ability to use affiliations to automatically create soft credits for. Different types of corporate giving. The things that I am not quite sure on are the employer matches this to my design. Specifications should use the. Record type on opportunity of matching gift. So there should be a donation and a matching gift. The matching gift would be from the corporation or business that is doing the matching, whereas the donation will come from a. An individual donor. So if Jason Ott made a gift and Mission Matters Group did the match, there should be a donation from Jason and then a matching gift from Mission Matters group where they. The Emission Matters Group opportunity has the matching gift record type. What I don't know and will probably have to flag as a question for the client on this one is should Jason get soft credit for the Mission Matters Group gift? So if Jason gives $100 in Mission Matters Group matches $100, should Jason have $100 of hard credit and $100 of soft credit? That should be an open question for the client, but we should still be able to handle that with affiliations or maybe not. We'll need to do some checking on that. The other thing that we'll need to do some research on and figure out is the best way of accounting for donor advised fund gifts. In speaking with the client and having meetings with them, the accounting perspective on donor advised funds doesn't really care about the fund itself as a hard creditor. So if Jason Ott makes a gift through a Schwab investment account, from an accounting perspective the accountant is just giving that gift to or associating that gift to Jason Ott is not. Associating it with like Schwab Investments or something like that, we need to do some research on how nonprofits typically handle these type of gifts in sales force so that it's easy to enter and will match with the accounting, so there's no reconciliation issues. The final thing that I have questions on or just need to research further on this is soft credits rolling up to the contact and household. So if Margaret Aunt is the spouse of Jason not and Jason not makes a gift, Margaret Ott's relationship automatically dictates that she will receive a soft credit. We roll that soft credit up to the household. I need to make sure that we're not double counting that gift in the household. So that the art household doesn't have $200 where it counts a $100 hard credit from Jason and a $100 soft credit from Margaret, both ruled up to the same household. We need to look into how those roll ups handle those things. 

Other things to know about this story are things like in the definition of done, the exception process documented for manual soft credit entry does not need to be a part of the implementation plan. That's for the client to handle. And the staff training on which credit tip to use in common scenarios is also not part of the implementation plan that will be handled in a separate part of the project which is training. The comments have things where I wrote notes for the various soft credits in areas that actively contribute to soft credit roll ups. It has questions on the donation roles that we want to track that are not soft credits. Partial Soft Credits, Benevity Daft gifts and so on. The Daft Gifts is mentioned above where we need to do some research on that. Benevity is the same thing as DAF where the accountant said that when a benevity gift comes in, the hard credit is just applied because it's that donors money, they don't hard credit the company of benevity and we should match that in CRM and the idea of partial soft credits was marked as. Confusing by the client, so they don't think that they want to do that. Other than that, we'll just use the standard soft credit rolls that are included in NPSP and we'll add to them as we go. 

Things that I wanna make sure that we do as part of the implementation plan on this story are I wanna make sure that we have the Relationship and Affiliation Lightning record pages set up so that they're very user friendly and easy to see what you're doing when you're creating a relationship or affiliation and have as it relates to automating the soft credit pieces of it. I also wanna make sure that we add a tab component to the Contact Lightning record page. With the tab label of relationships, I want to put the dynamic related list single component on there. For the relationships as well as affiliations. So that should be a separate tab component with both related lists on it, so that when a user is looking at the Contact record page, they see that Relationships tab separate from the Details tab, separate from the related tab, and they can see both individual relationships reflected by the relationships related object. And the affiliations.

Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.