Customizable Rollups and Soft Credits
Soft credits are used when a Contact or Account influenced the donation, but isn't responsible for the payment. Hard credits, on the other hand, are used when a Contact or Account directly makes a donation and is responsible for the payment.

Soft Credits on Contact
Note
Note With Customizable Rollups, if an Opportunity has duplicate soft credits, only one of those soft credits is included in rollups. For example, if an Opportunity includes two Partial Soft Credits for Sue Jones, only one of the soft credits is included in the soft credit rollups on Sue's Contact record.
Soft Credits on Contacts

In NPSP, soft credits (including any partial soft credits) and soft credit rollups are tracked on Contacts. With Customizable Rollups, all of the Contact Soft Credit Rollup fields still exist, but the rollups that populate them are now defined in Customizable Rollups. Users can edit the existing ones or create new ones.

If you want to learn more about the differences between soft credit and hard credit Customizable Rollups and how they work, see Hard Credit vs. Soft Credit Customizable Rollups.

Important
Important Hard credit rollups work differently when you enable Customizable Rollups. Customizable Rollups created using a Contact (Hard Credit) rollup type are based on the person listed in the Primary Contact field on an Opportunity (the Contact who actually paid for the donation). This is different from how hard credit rollups worked before Customizable Rollups came along. Previously, hard credit rollups were based on the Contact with the Opportunity Contact Role marked as Primary. For more information, see "How Hard Credit and Soft Credit Customizable Rollups Work" in Hard Credit vs. Soft Credit Customizable Rollups.
Soft Credits on Accounts
With Customizable Rollups, we also offer the ability to roll up Account soft credits. An Account soft credit is a credit for a donation that the Account didn't actually make, but may have somehow influenced. For example, a Donor Advised Fund uses a bank to manage their money. When a donation comes from the Donor Advised Fund, the check is actually generated by the bank, so the bank gets the hard credit for the donation. Using Account soft credits, you can ensure that the Donor Advised Fund gets a soft credit for their donation, and you can roll up those soft credits to the Account.

For information on using Account soft credits, see Configure Automated and Manual Soft Credits and Manually Create Soft Credits.

Additionally, you can create Customizable Rollups that roll up all Contact level soft credits to the Household Account. These soft credits are valuable if you want to be able to see the total giving for an entire Household.

For example, you may have major donors that give on an annual basis, but the money is coming from a donor advised fund or family foundation (not their personal checkbook) managed by a financial institution. Thus, all donations come directly from that financial institution. This results in hard credits and the majority of the rollups pointing to the financial institution (for accounting reasons), which makes it hard to fully realize the amount of money the Contact or Household has given when you view their records in NPSP. Thanks to Customizable Rollups custom soft credit rollups, it's easy for organizations to get a complete picture of major donor giving while still following accounting best practices.

For more information on soft credits, see Soft Credits Overview.

Hard Credit vs. Soft Credit Customizable Rollups
Understanding how NPSP determines what data rolls up to a hard credit or soft credit Customizable Rollup can be confusing.

What makes a Customizable Rollup either a hard credit or soft credit rollup? And how do individual donations (from Contacts) or organization donations (from Organization Accounts) play into all of this? We're going to help you figure it all out!

First, let's define what we mean when we say hard credit and soft credit. A hard credit is a credit for a donation that a Contact or Account made. In other words, the donor “signed the check.” A soft credit is a credit for a donation that a Contact or Account did not make themselves, but may have somehow influenced. For example, a Contact's employer sent in a matching gift, or the Contact is a member of the family that made the donation.

When creating Customizable Rollups, you decide whether the rollup is for soft credits or hard credits using the Rollup Type field.

Note
Note If you need a refresher on what rollups are, head on over to the Rollups Overview to learn more.
Here are the Rollup Types for Contact rollups:

The Rollup Type field showing the options for Contact rollups.
Here are the Rollup Types for Account rollups:

The Rollup Type field showing the options for Account rollups.
How Hard Credit and Soft Credit Customizable Rollups Work
How hard credit and soft credit rollups work depends on whether the donation came from a Contact, a Household Account, or an Organization Account.

Contact and Household Account Donations (Opportunities)

Customizable Rollups created using a Contact (Hard Credit) rollup type are based on the person listed in the Primary Contact field on an Opportunity (the Contact who actually paid for the donation). Customizable Rollups created using a Contact (Soft Credit) rollup type are based on the soft credit Contact Role(s) on an Opportunity.

For Household giving, the Primary Contact field on an Opportunity is especially important. When you create an Opportunity where the Opportunity's Primary Contact is automatically populated, such as from an Action on the Contact, that person is listed as the Primary Contact on the Opportunity (in the Primary Contact field) and gets a hard credit. The other Household members get soft credits and are assigned an Opportunity Contact Role (OCR) that is defined as indicating soft credit status (such as Household Member, Soft Credit, Influencer, etc). These roles are created and defined automatically when you started using the NPSP Trial, and were configured in NPSP Settings before Customizable Rollups was released. You now define which OCRs you want a rollup to consider using filter rules (within a filter group) that are applied to the rollup itself. For more information on filter rules and filter groups, see Create Filter Groups.

Important
Important It's important to note that this is different from how hard credit rollups worked before Customizable Rollups came along. Previously, hard credit rollups were based on the Contact with the Opportunity Contact Role marked as Primary. In theory, the Contact with the OCR marked as Primary and the Primary Contact on an Opportunity should be the same, but this isn't always the case, so it's important to note this distinction.
Important
Important The concept of Primary Contact can be confusing because there is a Primary Contact on the Account and a Primary Contact on the Opportunity. These are two different fields that affect how hard credits are assigned. If an admin created an Opportunity (donation) from a Household record, the Primary Contact on the Account would automatically be assigned as the Primary Contact on the Opportunity after the record is saved. But, if any of the other Household members make a donation and the Opportunity is created from their own Contact record, that Contact is assigned as the Primary Contact on the Opportunity (we'll show this in the example below). And as we mentioned before, the Primary Contact field on an Opportunity is used for hard credit rollups on Household giving, so it's important to understand how this field gets populated!
Organization Account Donations (Opportunities)

On an Organization Account Opportunity, the Primary Contact isn't required. If there is a Primary Contact listed, an Opportunity Contact Role called “Soft Credit” is automatically created for that Contact. That OCR is also marked Primary. Even though it's marked Primary, since this is an Organization Account donation, the value of the donation is only reflected in the Contact's soft credit totals. So, by default, for Organization Account Opportunities, the Account gets the hard credit and the person listed as the Primary Contact gets a soft credit.

For donations that an Account didn't directly make, but may have influenced, you can assign the Account a soft credit with a specific role. Customizable Rollups created using an Opportunity > Account (Account Soft Credit) rollup type are based on the Account Soft Credit role(s) assigned on the Opportunity. When setting up an Account Soft Credit Customizable Rollup, you determine the roles to include within a filter rule (in a filter group), and then assign that filter group to your rollup.

Example—Household Member Donation
Let's look at an example that illustrates how a donation from a Contact within a Household works with Customizable Rollups.

The Williams family has three members: Terrance, Josephine, and Dante. Terrance Williams is the Primary Contact on the Williams Household Account. Josephine makes a donation to a local food pantry in the amount of $500, and writes the check from her personal bank account. The food pantry receives the check and pulls up Josephine's Contact record in NPSP. They create the Opportunity in the amount of $500.

Opportunity record showing that Josephine Williams is the Primary Contact and showing that there are 3 Contact Roles.
You'll notice on the Opportunity record that Josephine Williams is listed as the Primary Contact (1), which means that she will get hard credit for this donation. That hard credit will be reflected in hard credits rollups to the Williams Household Account and in hard credit rollups on Josephine's Contact record. You'll also notice that three Contact Roles (2) were created on this Opportunity. Josephine gets the Donor OCR (with the Primary Checkbox checked), and Terrance and Dante are assigned the Household Members OCR. Terrance and Dante each received soft credit for this donation because they are part of the Williams Household and the Household Member role is designated as a soft credit role.

So, now let's look at the Contact records and Account record to see how this all rolls up. First, we'll look at Josephine's Contact record. You see that the Total Gifts field (which is populated by a hard credit rollup) shows the $500 donation.

Contact record for Jospehine Williams, showing that the Total Gifts field includes the $500 donation.
Now, if you look at Terrance or Dante's record, you'll see the $500 donation listed in the Soft Credit Totals section, because Terrance received a $500 soft credit for Josephine's donation.

Contact record for Terrance Williams, showing that the Soft Credit Total rollup field shows the $500 donation.
And lastly, if you look at the Williams Account record, you'll see (1) the hard credit reflected in the Total Gifts field (which is populated by a hard credit rollup) and (2) the soft credit reflected in the Total Household Member Soft Credits field (which is populated by a rollup created using the Account (Contact Soft Credit) rollup type).

Note
Note The Total Household Member Soft Credit field shows data for a Customizable Rollup we created using the Account (Contact Soft Credit) rollup type. This rollup type doesn't double count soft credits, so if Dante and Terrance each received a $500 soft credit, the field will only show $500. If they each received a partial soft credit for $250, this field will only show $250.
Account record for the Williams Household, showing that the Total Gifts field includes the $500 donation, and the Total Household Member Soft Credits field also includes the $500 donation.
Example—Organization Account Donation
Now, let's look at an example that illustrates how a donation from an Organization Account works with Customizable Rollups.

Josephine Williams is an employee at ABC Corp., a company that regularly donates to local nonprofits. Because Josephine is so passionate about the food pantry, she recommends to her employer's Foundation group that they make a donation. ABC Corp. agrees to make a $5000 donation and sends a check to the food pantry. The food pantry receives the check and creates an account for ABC Corp. They then create an opportunity for $5000, and since Josephine influenced the donation, list her as the Primary Contact on the Opportunity.

Opportunity record from ABC Corp with Josephine Williams listed as the Primary Contact, and with a Soft Credit Contact Role.
Since this is an Organization Account donation, ABC Corp. will get hard credit for the donation. The $5000 will be reflected in hard credit rollups to the Account. You'll notice on the Opportunity record that Josephine Williams is listed as the Primary Contact (1). You'll also notice that there is a Contact Role (2) for Josephine on this Opportunity. Since Josephine is listed as the Primary Contact on the Opportunity, she was automatically assigned a Contact Role, which means that she will get soft credit. You'll see the $5000 soft credit reflected in soft credit rollups on Josephine's Contact record.

Now, let's look at the Account and Contact records to see how this all rolls up. First, we'll look at ABC Corp.'s Account record. You'll see the $5000 hard credit in the Total Gifts field (which is populated by a hard credit rollup).

Note
Note
The Contact Role that is automatically assigned to Josephine is determined by the value in the Contact Role for Organizational Opps field in NPSP Settings under Donations | Contact Roles.

Keep in mind that the Contact Role assigned to Josephine must be included in a filter group applied to soft credit Customizable Rollups. Otherwise, the donation won't roll up.

Account record for ABC Corp., showing that the Total Gifts field includes the $5000 donation.
Now, if we look at Josephine's Contact record, we see the $5000 in the Soft Credit Total field (which is populated by a soft credit rollup), because Josephine received a soft credit for the Organization Account donation.

Contact record for Josephine Williams, showing that the Soft Credit Total field includes the $5000 donation.


Configure Automated and Manual Soft Credits
Find out more about configuring automated and manual soft credits.

About Soft Credits
Soft credits represent recognition credit for donations. For example, when a company matches an employee's gift, the employee gets a soft credit for the matching gift.
Add Opportunity Contact Roles
Nonprofit Success Pack comes with many Opportunity Contact Roles. Create additional Opportunity Contact Roles to meet your organization's need.
Enable Soft Credit Fields
Assign Read and Edit permissions for following fields to your System Administrator and other relevant profiles and permission sets.
Enable Manage Soft Credits Button
The Manage Soft Credits button allows users to create and edit full or partial soft credits on Opportunities.
Enable Automated Household Member Soft Credits
NPSP provides a unique type of soft credit for Households—the Household Member soft credit. With Household Member soft credits, everyone in the Household receives a soft credit for a donation made by anyone else in the Household.
Enable Contact Role for Organizational Opportunities
For Organizational gifts, you may wish to assign a soft credit to someone who helped you win the gift, for example, a board member. NPSP can automatically credit the Contact named in the Primary Contact field on an Organizational Opportunity.
Enable Relationship and Affiliation Soft Credits
NPSP can automatically create soft credits based on Relationship and Affiliation records.
Enable Partial Soft Credits
Make sure the Partial Soft Credit object is accessible to all profiles that also have access to Opportunities.
Enable Account Soft Credits
Before you can use Account Soft Credits, you need to give users access to the Account Soft Credit object and fields, and add the Account Soft Credit related list to your page layout. You can also optionally add more Account Soft Credit roles.
Additional Soft Credits Configuration
These NPSP features use soft credits and may require configuration before use in your org.
About Soft Credits
Soft credits represent recognition credit for donations. For example, when a company matches an employee's gift, the employee gets a soft credit for the matching gift.

Learn more in Soft Credits Overview.

NPSP creates soft credits automatically in a variety of scenarios. Read Automated Soft Credits for more information. You can also manually Manually Create Soft Credits.

Feature Release Information
This feature was released in NPSP version 3.63 (2/3/2016).

Add Opportunity Contact Roles
Nonprofit Success Pack comes with many Opportunity Contact Roles. Create additional Opportunity Contact Roles to meet your organization's need.

Nonprofit Success Pack comes with these Opportunity Contact Roles out of the box.

Donor
Household Member
Soft Credit
Matched Donor
Honoree
Notification Recipient
Grant Manager
Decision Maker
Influencer
Solicitor
Workplace Giving
Other
Make sure these roles are present in your org. Create additional roles to meet your organization's needs.

From Setup, enter Contact Roles in the Quick Find box, then select Contact Roles on Opportunities.
Click New to add Opportunity Contract Roles.
Click Save to finish.
Enable Soft Credit Fields
Assign Read and Edit permissions for following fields to your System Administrator and other relevant profiles and permission sets.

Assign Field-Level Security
Contact fields:

First Soft Credit Amount

First Soft Credit Date

Largest Soft Credit Amount

Largest Soft Credit Date

Last Soft Credit Amount

Last Soft Credit Date

Number of Soft Credits

Number of Soft Credits Last N Days

Number of Soft Credits Last Year

Number of Soft Credits This Year

Number of Soft Credits Two Years Ago

Relationship fields:

Related Opportunity Contact Role
Affiliation fields:

Related Opportunity Contact Role
For more information on setting field-level security, see Verify Access for a Particular Field.

.

Add Fields to Page Layouts
Add the fields listed above to these page layouts:

Add Contact fields to the Contact Layout.

Add Relationship fields to the Relationship Layout.

Add Affiliation fields to the Affiliation Layout.

For more information on adding fields to page layouts, read Customize Page Layouts with the Enhanced Page Layout Editor.

Enable Manage Soft Credits Button
The Manage Soft Credits button allows users to create and edit full or partial soft credits on Opportunities.

Assign Permissions for the Manage Soft Credits Button
To allow users (including admins) to manage soft credits, grant these permissions for the Partial Soft Credit object and fields:

Create and Delete access on the Partial Soft Credit object
Read and Edit access on the Amount, Contact Role Id, and Role Name fields
Read access on the Contact Name field
Assign Manage Soft Credits Visualforce Page
From Setup, go to Profiles.
Select the profile you wish to edit.
Click Visualforce Page Access.
Click Edit.
Find and select PSC_ManageSoftCredits in Available Visualforce Pages.
Click Add.
Click Save.
Add Manage Soft Credits Button to Opportunity Page Layout
From Object Manager, find and select Opportunity.
Click Page Layouts.
Select Donation Layout.
In the palette, click Buttons.
Click and drag Manage Soft Credits to Custom Buttons in the page layout details section.
Click Save.
Add Manage Soft Credits Button to Partial Soft Credits Related List
From Object Manager, find and select Opportunity.
Click Page Layouts.
Select Donation Layout.
In the palette, click Related Lists.
Using the wrench icon, edit the related list properties for Partial Soft Credits.
Click the plus-sign to expand the Buttons section.
In Available Button, click Manage Soft Credits.
Click Add.
Click OK.
Click Save.
Enable Automated Household Member Soft Credits
NPSP provides a unique type of soft credit for Households—the Household Member soft credit. With Household Member soft credits, everyone in the Household receives a soft credit for a donation made by anyone else in the Household.

For more information and examples, see Soft Credits Overview.

To enable Automated Household Member soft credits:

Click App launcher icon, then click NPSP Settings.
Click Donations | Contact Roles.
Click Edit.
If it is not already selected, select Household Contact Roles On.
In the Household Member Contact Role field, select the Contact Role you want to use for automatic soft crediting. We recommend selecting the default, Household Member.
(Optional) In the Household OCR Excluded Record Types picklist, select any Record Types you want to exclude from automatic Household soft crediting. For example, you might use a different Record Type for children so that you can exclude children from automatic soft crediting whenever a parent makes a donation.

Note
Note When you exclude a record type from automatic Household soft crediting, Salesforce still creates a Household Member Opportunity Contact Role for the Contact, but does not roll up the donation Amount to the Contact's record.
Click Save.
Enable Contact Role for Organizational Opportunities
For Organizational gifts, you may wish to assign a soft credit to someone who helped you win the gift, for example, a board member. NPSP can automatically credit the Contact named in the Primary Contact field on an Organizational Opportunity.

To use this automated soft credit :

Click the NPSP Settings tab. If you don't see the tab, find it in the App Launcher (App Launcher icon).

Click Donations | Contact Roles , and then click Edit.
In the Contact Role for Organizational Opps field, select the Contact Role to automatically assign the Contact listed in the Primary Contact field on an Organizational Opportunity.
Click Save.
Enable Relationship and Affiliation Soft Credits
NPSP can automatically create soft credits based on Relationship and Affiliation records.

For more information, see Automated Soft Credits.

Create Picklist Values
The Related Opportunity Contact Role field on Relationships and Affiliations has these default values:

Soft Credit
Solicitor
Tribute
Create these values if they aren't already there, and add additional ones if needed.

From Setup, click the Object Manager tab.
In the list of objects, click Relationship.
Click Fields & Relationships.
Click Related Opportunity Contact Role.
Click New in the Values section to add picklist values.
Click Save.
Repeat these instructions for the Affiliation object.

Create Opportunity Contact Roles for Relationship and Affiliation Soft Credits
It's important that the picklist values in Related Opportunity Contact Role on Relationships and Affiliations match the available Opportunity Contact Roles.

From Setup, enter Contact Roles in the Quick Find box, then click Contact Roles on Opportunities.
Click New in the Opportunity Contact Role Picklist Values section and add any missing Contact roles.
Click Save.
Enable Partial Soft Credits
Make sure the Partial Soft Credit object is accessible to all profiles that also have access to Opportunities.

Profiles should be granted the same access to the Partial Soft Credit object as they are granted for Opportunities. For example, this is the System Administrator profile:

System Administrator profile with enabled object permissions
Enable Account Soft Credits
Before you can use Account Soft Credits, you need to give users access to the Account Soft Credit object and fields, and add the Account Soft Credit related list to your page layout. You can also optionally add more Account Soft Credit roles.

Note
Note To get the most value out of Account Soft Credits, you'll want to enable Customizable Rollups so you can roll up the soft credit values to the Account records. At this time, you can't roll up Account soft credits to legacy NPSP rollups or User Defined Rollups.
Account Soft Credits are available as of  NPSP version 3.137 (August 2018). If you need help figuring out which version of NPSP you're using, check out Which Version of NPSP Am I Using?.

Give Users Access to the Account Soft Credit Object and Fields
Click Gear icon that represents the Setup menu, then click Setup.

In Setup, enter Profiles in the Quick Find box, then click Profiles.

Edit the profiles of all users who will work with Account soft credits.

Click Object Settings, then click Account Soft Credits.

Click Edit and set the object permissions to Read, Create, Edit, and Delete.

In the Field Permissions section, select Read Access and Edit Access for each field.

Click Save.

Add the Account Soft Credit Related List to Page Layouts
If you started using NPSP from a trial at version 3.137 or later, you can skip this section.

We recommend adding the Account Soft Credit related list to your Opportunity page layouts and the Organization Account page layout.

Click Gear icon that represents the Setup menu, then click Setup.

Click the Object Manager tab.

In the list of objects, click Opportunity.

Click Page Layouts.

Click the name of the page layout you want to edit.

In the list on the left of the palette, click Related Lists.

Find the Account Soft Credits related list and drag it to where you want it on the page.

Page layout editor showing that you need to drag the Account Soft Credits item from the related lists and drag it on to the page
Click Save.

Now, if you go to an Opportunity record, you'll see the Account Soft Credits related list.

Showing an Opportunity record with the Account Soft Credits related list highlighted.
Repeat these steps for your other Opportunity page layouts and the Organization Account page layout.

Add More Account Soft Credit Roles
By default, Account soft credits have three default roles: Donation Source, Influencer, and Match. You may need to set up additional roles based on your org and business processes. You create new roles by editing the Role picklist values on the Account Soft Credit object.

Click Gear icon that represents the Setup menu, then click Setup.

Click the Object Manager tab.

In the list of items, click Account Soft Credit.

Click Fields & Relationships.

In the list of fields, click Role. Then scroll down to the Values related list.

Click New and enter new Role values. Each value should be on its own line.

Adding new values to the Role field. Each value is on its own line.
Click Save.

The Values related list on the Role field. It shows the new values you entered.
Now you can use these Roles in your Customizable Rollups for Account soft credits. When creating a Customizable Rollup for Account soft credits, be sure to create a filter group with a filter rule that includes these values.

Additional Soft Credits Configuration
These NPSP features use soft credits and may require configuration before use in your org.

For detailed information, refer to these resources:

Configure Matching Gifts
Configure Tribute Gifts
Configure Soft Credit and Matching Gift Rollup Settings


Manually Create Soft Credits
Use the Nonprofit Success Pack to manage full and partial soft credits.

Full Soft Credits Versus Partial Soft Credits
There are two kinds of soft credits in the Nonprofit Success Pack. A full soft credit is a soft credit for the entire amount of the donation. A partial soft credit is a soft credit for an amount that is only a portion of the larger donation.
Assign Full Soft Credits
Nonprofit Success Pack creates soft credits based on Opportunity Contact Roles, and the settings you've specified.
Assign Partial Soft Credits
Manually assign partial soft credits to Contacts who have a role in donations you receive.
Create Account Soft Credits
Create soft credits for Accounts to track their role in donations you receive.
Create Account Contact Soft Credits
Account Contact Soft Credit rollups aggregate all Household members' soft credits and roll them up to the Household.
Full Soft Credits Versus Partial Soft Credits
There are two kinds of soft credits in the Nonprofit Success Pack. A full soft credit is a soft credit for the entire amount of the donation. A partial soft credit is a soft credit for an amount that is only a portion of the larger donation.

There are two kinds of soft credits in the Nonprofit Success Pack:

A full soft credit is a soft credit for the entire amount of the donation. For example, Mary gives $100, Company Awesome matches $100, Mary gets soft credit for Company Awesome's $100 donation. You can create full soft credits manually, or enable automated soft credits.

A partial soft credit is a soft credit for an amount that is only a portion of the larger donation. For example, organizations like Network for Good and United Way collect donations on behalf of an organization's constituents, and typically share them with nonprofits on a regular basis (monthly or quarterly). The nonprofit creates a single Opportunity record for the larger check received, but needs to soft credit its individual constituents accordingly.

Note
Note Partial soft credits are also important for matching gifts, but we'll talk about that in another section.
All Soft Credit attributions appear in the Contact Roles related list on an Opportunity. However, if the Opportunity includes partial soft credits, then the Soft Credit attribution also appears in the Opportunity's Partial Soft Credits related list.

screenshot of soft credit related lists
In the above example, we're using the "Soft Credit” Contact Role to track Partial Soft Credits on Opportunities. The screen shot shows a single $1000 donation that's come in from Network for Passthrough, with Soft Credit Contact Roles assigned to the four donors responsible for the aggregate donation. In the Partial Soft Credits related list, you can also see the amount that each individual gave, and thus the amount that will be rolled up to the Soft Credits section of each donor's Contact record.

It's perfectly fine and expected to see the same soft credit listed in both the Contact Role and Partial Soft Credits related lists. Every Partial Soft Credit record should have a corresponding Contact Role record. Not every Contact Role record will have a corresponding Partial Soft Credit record.

Assign Full Soft Credits
Nonprofit Success Pack creates soft credits based on Opportunity Contact Roles, and the settings you've specified.

If you haven't read the Soft Credits Overview, Configure Soft Credit Rollups, and Automated Soft Credits, you should do so before proceeding.

Note
Note Watch the Nonprofit Salesforce How-To Series video about Full Soft Credits.
Important
Important For soft credits to roll up from the Opportunity to the Contact's record, the Opportunity must be of a type that rolls up. In general you should not need to worry about this, unless you've excluded specific Opportunity types or record types from rolling up.
Navigate to an Opportunity record.
On the Contact Roles related list, click Edit Contact Roles.
Enter the Contact to whom you want to assign the soft credit.
Set the Role to the correct value. It should be a role that's been configured to receive soft credits.
Click Add Row to add another Contact Role. Once you've selected all Contacts and assigned roles, click Save.
Assign Partial Soft Credits
Manually assign partial soft credits to Contacts who have a role in donations you receive.

Note
Note Watch the Nonprofit Salesforce How-To Series video about Partial Soft Credits.
The Nonprofit Success Pack creates soft credits based on Opportunity Contact Roles, and the settings you've specified. If you haven't read the Soft Credits Overview and Configure Automated and Manual Soft Credits, you should do so before proceeding.

Note
Note NPSP How-To Series: Partial Soft Credits
Important
Important For soft credits to roll up from the Opportunity to the Contact's record, the Opportunity must be of a type that rolls up. In general you should not need to worry about this, unless you've excluded specific Opportunity types or record types from rolling up.
Navigate to an Opportunity record.
In the top right corner of the page, click Manage Soft Credits. You should see all of the Contacts who have Contact Roles already assigned on this Opportunity. You may also see no Contacts listed if no Contact Roles have been assigned.
Assign Partial Soft Credits by clicking the Partial radio button for the appropriate Contact, and entering the amount for their partial soft credit.
Note
Note You MUST have the Partial radio button selected to enter soft credit amounts. Selecting the Full radio button populates the Amount field with 100% of the Opportunity. This amount will not be editable.
Additionally, you can click Add another soft credit, browse to more Contacts, and assign them partial soft credits as well.
Note
Note
When adding new Partial Soft Credits, you'll only be able to select Contact Roles that are eligible for soft credit rollups.

However, if Customizable Rollups is enabled in your org, you'll see all Contact Roles (all the values listed in Setup | Contact Roles on Opportunities). Be sure to select one that you know is included in a Soft Credit Filter Rule. Ask your admin if you are unsure.

(Optional) Select Allow Soft Credit Amount more than Total Amount if you need to credit Contacts for more than the Opportunity Amount. For example, if you have 2 Contacts who should receive Influencer soft credit for the entire $1000 Amount of the Opportunity, and a third Contact who is only credited for $100, that would bring the total soft credit amount to $2100 on a $1000 gift.
When you're finished, click Save.
Create Account Soft Credits
Create soft credits for Accounts to track their role in donations you receive.

Note
Note Watch the Nonprofit Salesforce How-To Series video about Account Soft Credit.
Three Contacts from ABC Corp indicate that they each want a $100 donation taken out of their paycheck and given to a local food pantry. ABC Corp matches those donations. So, CorpMatch sends a check to a local food pantry in the amount of $600. Make sure that ABC Corp gets soft credit for the $300 match using an Account soft credit.

Enter the Opportunity from CorpMatch in the amount of $600.
On the Opportunity, go to the Account Soft Credits related list and click New.
Select the Account to soft credit. For our example, choose ABC Corp.
Enter the Amount of the soft credit. It can be a partial amount. Since ABC Corp. matched $300 worth of donations, we will enter that amount.
Note
Note Enter a soft credit that's less than or equal to the original donation amount. Entering a larger soft credit causes your rollups to show inaccurate amounts.
Select the Role. Be sure to select a Role that is included in a filter rule applies to your Account Soft Credit rollup(s)!
New Account Soft Credit screen.
Click Save.
If you have Account Soft Credit rollups configured, you should now see that $300 reflected in Account soft credit rollups on ABC Corp.'s Account.
Create Account Contact Soft Credits
Account Contact Soft Credit rollups aggregate all Household members' soft credits and roll them up to the Household.

If you enable Customizable Rollups, you can create Account Contact Soft Credits. Account Contact Soft Credit rollups aggregate all Household members' soft credits and roll them up to the Household. To take advantage of Account Contact Soft Credits, create a rollup as follows:

Go to the NPSP Settings tab. If you don't see the tab in your org, you can find it from the App Launcher.
Click Donations | Customizable Rollups.
Click Configure Customizable Rollups .
Click New.
Enter the rollup details. We'll provide example values for a Total Soft Credits rollup.
In the Target Object field, select Account.
Select a Target Field. For example, you might have a custom field called Total Soft Credits.
Enter a Description. For example, The total amount of soft credits received by Contacts in this Account.
Enter an Operation. For example, select Sum.
Enter a Time Frame. For example, All Time.
In the Rollup Type field, select Opportunity > Account (Contact Soft Credit).
(Optional) Select a Filter Group. For example, select Opps: Won (SC).
In the Amount Field, under Advanced Customizations, select a value. For example, Soft Credit: Amount.
Customizable Rollup for an Account Contact Soft Credit that rolls up Contact's soft credits to a Total Soft Credit field on the Account
Click Save.


NPSP Logic for Creating Opportunity Contact Roles
Learn what NPSP automation for creating soft credits takes precedence when multiple automated processes are involved.

Note
Note Watch the Nonprofit Salesforce How-To Series video about Opportunity Contact Roles Logic.
Since there are many ways to automatically create Opportunity Contact Roles and soft credits in NPSP, you may have situations where more than one automated soft credit rule applies. For example, John and Sally may be Household members, and may also have a Relationship record to track that they're siblings. If Sally makes a donation, depending on how you've configured soft credits in NPSP Settings and fields on the Relationship record, John may be eligible for both a Household member soft credit and a soft credit based on his Relationship record with Sally.

It would get confusing to have multiple contact roles for the same Contact on the same Opportunity. So NPSP cleverly creates just one.

But how does it determine which one to create? For example, if the same Contact is listed as both the Honoree and Notification Recipient, how does NPSP decide which role to go with and which to ignore?

The answer, dear friends, lies in this prioritized list:

Order of Precedence for Contact Roles
Primary Contact
Honoree Contact
Notification Recipient
Affiliated Contact (organizational gift) or Related Contact (individual gift)
Household Member (individual gifts only)
Note
Note Individual gift means Opportunities related to a Household, One-to-One, or Individual Account. Organizational gifts means Opportunities related to an Account that is not a Household, One-to-One, or Individual Account.
What the above list means is that if Bob Blackman is listed as both the Honoree Contact and the Notification Recipient on an Opportunity, NPSP will create only an Honoree Contact Role for Bob, since Honoree is higher up the chain than Notification Recipient.

On a different Opportunity, if Bob is listed as the Notification Recipient and is also an Affiliated Contact, NPSP creates a Notification Recipient contact role for Bob.

Or, if there's an Opportunity where Bob is the related Contact on a Relationship record with the Primary Contact, and Bob is also the Primary Contact's Household Member, NPSP creates the Contact Role based on the Relationship.

Where does the Role value come from?
For most of the Opportunity Contact Roles, NPSP gets the role value from NPSP Settings. For affiliated contact and related contact Opportunity Contact Roles, NPSP gets the role value from fields on the Affiliation or Relationship record, as shown:

Role Creation Based On	Where Role Value is Configured	NPSP Setting or Field Name	Individual or Organizational Opp
Primary Contact	NPSP Settings	Contact Role for Organizational Opps	Organizational
Primary Contact	NPSP Settings	Contact Role for Individual Opps	Individual
Honoree Contact	NPSP Settings	Honoree Opportunity Contact Role	both
Notification Recipient	NPSP Settings	Notification Recipient Contact Role	both
Affiliated Contact	Affiliation record	Related Opportunity Contact Role	Organizational
Related Contact	Relationship record	Related Opportunity Contact Role	Individual
Household Member	NPSP Settings	Household Member Contact Role	Individual
Putting It All Together
Let's look at some specific scenarios to see how all of this works.

Scenario Overview
NPSP Settings configuration:

Contact Role for Organizational Opps = "Influencer"
Contact Role for Individual Opps = "Donor"
Honoree Opportunity Contact Role = "Honoree"
Notification Recipient Contact Role = "Notification Contact"
Household Member Contact Role = "Household Member"
Relationships and Affiliations:

Rufus is Trayvon's brother. They live in the same Household. The Relationship record's Related Opportunity Contact Role field has a value of "Soft Credit."
Trayvon has an Affiliation record with the Paws Animal Shelter Account. The Related Opportunity Contact Role field on the Affiliation record has a value of "Solicitor."
Scenario	NPSP Creates This Opportunity Contact Role	Explanation
Rufus makes a donation to your organization. On the Opportunity, he is also listed as the Honoree Contact.	
Contact = Rufus

Role = Donor

This is an Individual Opportunity (donation came from an individual, Rufus), and the Primary Contact role takes precedence over Honoree Contact.
Paws Animal Shelter makes a gift to your organization. Trayvon is listed as the Primary Contact on the Opportunity. He is also listed as the Notification Recipient.	
Contact = Trayvon

Role = Influencer

This is an Organizational Opportunity (gift is from an organization). The Primary Contact role takes precedence over the Notification Recipient.
Paws Animal Shelter makes a gift to your organization. There is no Primary Contact listed on the Opportunity.	
Contact = Trayvon

Role = Solicitor

This is an Organizational Opportunity (gift is from an organization). Since Trayvon has an Affiliation record with the organization, NPSP creates the OCR based on the Affiliation record.
Trayvon makes a gift to your organization.	
Contact = Trayvon

Role = Donor

and

Contact = Rufus

Role = Soft Credit

Trayvon gets the Primary Contact role since he made an individual gift, and Rufus is Trayvon's Household Member and brother, but Roles configured on the Relationship take precedence over Household Member roles.


Set up Soft Credits
Learning Objectives
After completing this unit, you’ll be able to:

Explain how to assign soft credits with opportunity contact roles.
Manage soft credits through households, relationships, and affiliations.
Create an opportunity contact role.
Manually refresh soft credit rollups.
Soft Credits and Opportunity Contact Roles
Soft credits allow your development team to assign credit to individuals for gifts—even when those individuals aren’t direct donors. For example, if one member of a household donates, everyone in the household receives a soft credit. Or, if a board member secures a donation from a friend, they earn a soft credit.

Soft credits are determined by relationships. In NPSP, those relationships are recorded using opportunity contact roles (OCRs). OCRs record a contact’s relationship to a particular opportunity record, whether it's a donation, grant, or major gift. 

For example, Contact A is the donor on an opportunity record and gets hard credit. Contact B influenced Contact A’s decision to give. Contact B is assigned the appropriate OCR on the same opportunity record and receives soft credit.

An OCR can be assigned manually, which is great for when you know that one donor asked another to give. However, you can also assign OCRs automatically to spouses, household members, friends, and relations. That functionality is built right into NPSP!

NPSP automatically creates soft credits when:

A contact is a household member of the donor’s household for an individual donation.
A contact is the Primary Contact on an organizational opportunity.
A contact’s donation is designated as a matched gift via the Find Matched Gifts utility.
A contact is entered in the Honoree Contact or Notification Recipient Contact fields on an opportunity.
A contact has a relationship record with a Related Opportunity Contact Role to an individual donor.
A contact has an affiliation record with a Related Opportunity Contact Role to an organizational donor.
Check this table for NPSP’s standard OCRs and how they're commonly used. 

Contact Role(s)

Credit type

Notes

Donor

Hard credit

The person who gives the gift.

Household Member

Soft credit

Any contacts in the donor’s household account.

Matched Donor

Soft credit

Soft credit assigned when a donor’s company or another organization account gives a matched gift.

Honoree

Soft credit

Gifts given in honor of the contact.

Notification Recipient

Soft credit

Contact to be notified of a gift given in honor of or in memory of an individual.

Decision Maker

Soft credit

The contact responsible for the gift, often for corporate or other institutional donors.

Influencer

Soft credit

The contact that helped the donor make their decision.

Soft Credit

Soft credit

A generic OCR used when something more specific doesn’t apply.

Solicitor

Soft credit

The contact who asked the donor to give, such as a volunteer fundraiser or board member.

If you don't see these roles in your account, you must configure those accordingly. Check out Configure Automated and Manual Soft Credits in Salesforce Help for guidance.

Since there are many ways to automatically create OCRs and soft credits in NPSP, you may have situations where more than one automated soft credit rule applies. Fortunately, NPSP uses an order of precedence to avoid creating duplicate contact roles and applying several soft credits simultaneously. Read NPSP Logic for Creating Opportunity Contact Roles in Salesforce Help for details.

This can be a lot to understand in the abstract, so let’s make it more concrete with a few common scenarios. We’ll begin with soft credit for household members.

Automatic Soft Credit for Household Members
Robert Bullard, a board member at the (fictional) nonprofit No More Homelessness (NMH), just made a $500 gift. When you enter the opportunity and save it, a hard-credit Donor OCR is automatically created for Robert and a soft-credit Household Member OCR is created for his wife and daughter. 

If you don’t want household members to receive automatic soft credit, or if you want to assign these members another OCR, you can change this in NPSP Settings. Check out Configure Automated and Manual Soft Credits in Salesforce Help to learn more.

Related Contact Roles on an opportunity detail record

Automatic Soft Credits from Relationships
NMH board members like Robert have a give-or-get policy—they each must give or solicit a certain amount every year to keep their seat on the board. The NMH Development team needs to ensure board members receive soft credit for the gifts they influence. 

They do this through relationship records, which NPSP uses to automatically create soft credits for individual donations. 

NMH creates relationship records between Robert and anyone who gives on his behalf. Let’s follow along as the Development team creates this record.

Go to a contact record, click the menu arrow (The menu button) in the highlights panel, and click New Relationship.
Enter the contacts and choose the Solicitor OCR in the Related Opportunity Contact Role field.
New relationship form, highlighting Related Opportunity Contact Role
Click Save.
On any future gifts from that same donor, a solicitor contact role is automatically created for Robert and he earns soft credit for the donation. (If the situation doesn’t apply to a particular gift, NMH can always delete Robert’s OCR on the opportunity.)

Contact Role related list on the opportunity record

If you want NPSP to stop generating automated soft credits from a particular relationship record, remove the value in the Related Opportunity Contact Role field on the relationship record. Additionally, the Status field doesn’t affect automated soft credits—soft credits function regardless of a Current or Former value in the Status field. 

Note
You can use a Salesforce automation tool like Flow Builder if you want to update the Related Opportunity Contact Role field based on the value of other fields, such as Status or other custom fields.

Automatic Soft Credits from Affiliations
NPSP can automatically create soft credits for organizational donations based on affiliation records. These are like relationship records but connect a contact and an account instead of two contacts.

You would use an affiliation record, for example, if the members of a family foundation should receive soft credit for every donation made by the organization. Each would have an affiliation record with the family foundation’s account. 

Create and Assign a New Opportunity Contact Role
NPSP gives you a good start with its preconfigured OCRs, but you can create other custom OCRs as you need. For example, you may want to set up a contact role for program officers at foundations or alumni parents.

The Development team at NMH wants to create a new contact role for foundation program officers for grant opportunities. They could use this on affiliation records to connect a contact to an account for automatic soft credit, but they’ll more often add this manually on individual grant opportunities.

Let’s follow NMH’s admin, Gorav Patel, as he creates the new contact role.

Click the Setup icon (The Setup gear icon) and select Setup.
Click the Object Manager tab.
Use the quick find box to find and select Opportunity Contact Role.
Opportunity Contact Role menu item in the Setup Object Manager
Click Fields & Relationships and then click Role.
On the Opportunity Contact Role Picklist Values list, click New.
Enter the names of new contact roles, each on a separate line. Gorav enters just one: Program OfficerCopy.
Click Save.
Add contact role picklist values
When a grant is awarded, the NMH development team can now manually add a contact role to the opportunity for the program officer. That way, NMH has a record of that contact’s specific relationship to that grant and ensures they receive soft credit.

Opportunity detail record showing contact role related list

Manually Recalculate Rollups
Soft credit totals, or rollups, don’t change with every new opportunity that closes—they update when the nightly batch jobs run. This means your users won’t see updated soft credit rollups on the contact or account record until the next morning. This can be confusing for users, so make sure they’re clear on this point. 

If one of your colleagues needs the soft credit rollups to reflect updated totals immediately, an admin (that would probably be you!) can manually recalculate soft credits on-demand for a single account or contact or all records as an entire batch.

To manually recalculate rollups for one account or contact, navigate to that record, click the highlight panels menu button (The Menu dropdown button), and click Recalculate Rollups.

Recalculate Rollups on a single account or contact record

To manually recalculate the rollups for every contact and account record, follow these steps.

Navigate to NPSP Settings by clicking the tab or finding and selecting it from the App Launcher (The App Launcher icon).
Click Bulk Data Processes.
Click Rollup Donations Batch.
NPSP Settings Bulk Data Processes
Click Run Batch. The process may take some time, but it's safe to leave the page and come back later to check the result.
Now that you’re up-to-date on opportunity rollups fields, we’ll take a closer look at all the rollup summary fields in NPSP—and add some new ones—in the next unit. 


Manage Contact Roles and Soft Credits
Learning Objectives
After completing this unit, you’ll be able to:

Describe how NPSP uses contact roles for hard and soft credits.
Add and edit contact roles.
Add and edit soft credits.
Note
This module is intended to be used with a pre-configured NPSP Trailhead Playground. As of December 2025, NPSP is no longer offered as a preconfigured package in production orgs. If you’re following along in your production or sandbox org, some descriptions or instructions in this module may not match details in your NPSP org.

One Party, Many Donations
The house party hosted by fictional nonprofit No More Homelessness’s (NMH) board member, Robert Bullard, was a hit! The entire staff at NMH was excited to see such a variety of constituents there—former NMH clients, now alumni, dedicated volunteers who have also become dedicated donors, Robert's fellow board members, community members, and others. It was a blast, and it strengthened NMH’s belief that all team members are important in cultivating NMH’s donor development and fundraising efforts. 

After the NMH team reflected on Robert’s house party, they realized just how many influencers and advocates NMH has. Such a variety of constituents can solicit donations from a myriad of prospective donors—volunteer-led NMH advocacy workshops, speaking engagements featuring past NMH alumni, fundraising events like Robert’s awesome party, and more.

That’s why all teams at NMH—communications and advocacy, development, and program management—are familiar with the donation soft-credit management process. With soft credits, NMH can give these influencers credit for soliciting donations made by other individuals or organizations. 

Let’s follow along with NMH’s Development Associate, Sofia Rivera, to see how she uses soft credits while entering donations from Robert’s party into Nonprofit Success Pack (NPSP).   

Soft Credit Basics
Sofia has logged several donations as a result of Robert’s party into Salesforce using NPSP. While Robert didn't personally make all the donations, NMH wants to give him credit for soliciting these donations.

Soft credits provide a way for Sofia to recognize both Robert and the legal donor without counting a contribution twice. Nonprofits also use soft credits for gifts made in honor of, made in memory of, or solicited by someone other than the donor. In this case, Sofia wants to be sure to keep track of all the donations influenced by Robert since every board member has an annual “give or get” goal. Using soft credits in NPSP, Sofia and the rest of the NMH team will be able to easily track and report on his totals.

In NPSP, soft credits and soft credit rollups—the aggregate totals of different categories of soft credits—are tracked on the contact record. There are many soft credit rollups included in NPSP by default. If you're using customizable rollups, your admin can add even more soft credit rollups, including rollups that aggregate soft credits for all contacts in a household and roll them up to the household account as needed.

The Soft Credit Totals included in Contact Record Details

So, soft credits give you a more comprehensive picture of donor engagement. But how do you determine how to designate soft credits? Who receives them? And when?

NMH has a variety of constituents who act as influencers and advocates, so it might get tricky if events are more complex, such as event or workshop series where multiple hosts/organizers are involved. To answer this question, and develop a deeper understanding of how soft credits work in NPSP, you need to understand opportunity contact roles.

Soft Credits and Opportunity Contact Roles
An opportunity contact role is just that—a role you assign to a contact on a particular opportunity record. If Candace Evans—an avid NMH volunteer, advocate, and donor—attended Robert Bullard's fundraising party and made a donation, then she's the donor on the opportunity, but you could also count Robert as the solicitor.

NMH wants to capture both of these contacts and their different contributions on the opportunity record because both Candace and Robert had a role to play in securing the donation. See what we did there?

NPSP comes with several opportunity contact roles included, such as Decision Maker, Donor, Household Member, and Influencer. Read the full list in the Configure Automated and Manual Soft Credits article in Salesforce Help.

To ensure consistent use and accurate data, the NMH team has aligned on how they define and assign these roles. Your nonprofit organization should do the same. Your admin can also create additional custom roles to fill any specific organizational needs. NMH, for example, created a new contact role of Foundation Program Officer so that it can track the program officer on specific grant opportunities.

In NPSP, multiple contacts and multiple opportunities can connect independently to the household or organization account. But it’s opportunity contact roles that connect an opportunity and a contact. This connection is important because it allows us to connect giving information from the opportunity to the contact and household records. Without an opportunity contact role, that information is only related to the account record—or in NPSP, to the household.

Diagram illustrating the "Household" Account model.

Soft credits are assigned based on the opportunity contact role. NPSP uses contact roles, not contacts, when it creates soft credits. And this is where soft credit configuration can get a little tricky. If your admin set an opportunity contact role to receive soft credit, then any contact assigned that opportunity contact role receives a soft credit. If your admin doesn't set an opportunity contact role to receive soft credit, then any contact assigned that opportunity contact role doesn't receive soft credit.

Let’s rejoin Sofia as she enters Candace's $100 gift to see what the Contact Roles related list on the opportunity record looks like.

Sofia assigns:

Candace Evans as the Donor (hard credit)
Robert Bullard as the Solicitor (soft credit)
Calvin Wong as Candace's Household Member (soft credit)
An Opportunity Record displays Contacts and their Roles.

The Soft Credit Total rollup section on Robert's contact page now also includes Candace's donation. NPSP calculates soft credit rollups in its nightly batch, so you won't actually see soft credit rollups update in real-time unless you ask your admin to manually force the recalculation. You can also ask your admin to add the Recalculate Rollups button on the contact, which recalculates the rollup for a single record.

The Contact Record, including the Soft Credit fields rolling up into the total

In this case, making sure that the solicitor contact role is set to receive soft credit is critical. If it isn't, you get no data in Robert's soft credit fields. If you believe that your soft credits aren't working as intended, have your admin check the settings.

Sometimes you might have a contact role for which you don't want to recognize soft credit. Or you might have an opportunity record type that you want to exclude from soft credit calculations, such as in kind gifts. Again, your admin controls these settings. They can determine which roles and which record types receive soft credit and which do not.

Let’s take a minute to review those key points again:

NPSP calculates soft credits based on opportunity contact roles.
Your admin sets if an opportunity contact role gets soft credit in NPSP settings.
Your admin can exclude certain opportunity record types or opportunity types from soft credit calculations.
Now that you understand the basics, in the next unit you learn how to create and manage soft credit.

Resources
Salesforce Help: Soft Credits Overview
Salesforce Help: Automated Soft Credits
Trailblazer Community Topics: Soft Credits


Create and Manage Soft Credits
Learning Objectives
After completing this unit, you’ll be able to:

Add and edit soft credits.
Understand automated soft credits.
Manual Soft Credits
The example nonprofit No More Homelessness (NMH) wants to assign soft credit to Robert Bullard for the donations he brought in from his house party fundraiser. The simplest way to give Robert soft credit for the checks he brought in is to manually add his contact role to each opportunity record.

Let's follow NMH Development Associate Sofia as she adds a Solicitor opportunity contact role to one of the donations Robert solicited.

Navigate to the correct opportunity record.
Find the Contact Roles related list and click Edit Contact Roles.
Opportunity Contact Roles Related list highlighting Manage Contact Roles
Click Add Row.
Find and select a contact.
Find and select a contact role for the contact.
Manage Contact Roles detail, showing Contact name and Role type
Save your work.
Sofia can manually add a contact role to any donation once she's saved it. When she's done, the soft credit automatically rolls up to the appropriate contact record and fields according to the preferences her admin configured in NPSP Settings.

Automated Soft Credits
Manually adding contact roles to your opportunity records is the simplest way to assign soft credit to a donor—but donations can come in a variety of ways and be attributed to different types of influencers within your organization. You might also need to accommodate other household or family attribution, donor-advised funds, memorial gifts, peer-to-peer fundraising campaigns, and much more.

In many of these cases, you need to assign soft credit to one or more people, such as family members, board members, or influencers. NPSP allows your admin to configure soft credits to be assigned automatically depending on how the contact is related to other contacts, opportunities, or accounts in your Salesforce org.

NPSP creates automated soft credit for a contact when the contact is a:

Example

Member of a donor's household

Robert Bullard's wife Lisa automatically gets soft credit for gifts received from Robert.

Primary contact on an opportunity from a company or other institution

As the primary contact for his company, Jose Figueroa gets automatic soft credit for gifts made by Cloud Kicks.

Honoree or notification contact on an opportunity

An NMH donor makes a gift on behalf of a local activist. That activist is listed in the Honoree field on the opportunity record and gets soft credit for that gift.

Related contact on a relationship record with an individual donor

Robert Bullard gets soft credit for every donation made by someone who is related to him as a “friend.” This feature must be set up in NPSP Settings.

Contact on an affiliation record with an organizational donor

Every contact affiliated with a family foundation gets soft credit for donations made by the foundation. This feature must be set up in NPSP Settings.

Check with your admin to find out how the contact roles in your Salesforce org have been set up and how those roles are supporting the fundraising best practices at your nonprofit.

Household Member Soft Credits
We aren't going to dig into the details of every type of automated soft credit in this unit, but we do want to take a minute to review the most common one—household member soft credits.

With household member soft credits, everyone in the household receives a soft credit for a donation made by anyone else in the household. The typical example is two spouses. If a person makes a donation and is specified in NPSP as the donor, that person's spouse receives soft credit as a household member. Any other household members can receive soft credit, too.

Contact roles for a donation that shows one donor and two soft credit recipients who are members of the same household.

Household member soft credits in NPSP can happen automatically, you don't have to set them on each opportunity. As long as your admin has household member soft credits turned on, and has specified a contact role for household members, all members of a household automatically get soft credit anytime someone else in the household makes a donation.

We used household member soft credit as an example of how all of the automated soft credits might work in your org. Contact roles and soft credits can be tough concepts to understand, so don't worry if you aren't totally clear on how your organization might use them yet. Just remember that to assign soft credit to an individual, the correct contact role needs to be created on the opportunity record first.

Note
There's so much you can do with automated soft credits to support various donor recognition scenarios. In fact, you may have situations where more than one automated soft credit rule applies. Fortunately, NPSP applies an order of precedence to avoid creating duplicate contact roles.

A Word About the Nightly Batch
NPSP calculates soft credit rollups in its nightly batch, so you won't see an immediate change to a contact's soft credit rollup fields right after you assign them a qualified contact role. If you want to see updates immediately, you can have your admin manually recalculate rollups or you can use the recalculate rollups button on the contact or account.

Getting all of this right is important! Donors with more complex needs will expect that you’re representing their family, businesses, associates, and financial institutions correctly, and that your organization is crediting the right people for the donations they've helped to bring in. Since NPSP creates the soft credits automatically, you can scale your fundraising efforts while continuing to honor the wishes of your donors.

Now that you understand soft credits, in our next unit, you learn how to handle a specific type of soft credit unique to nonprofits: the matching gift.

Resources
Salesforce Help: Soft Credits Overview
Video: Nonprofit Salesforce How-To-Series: NPSP Manage Soft Credits
Video: Nonprofit Salesforce How-To-Series: NPSP Tribute Opportunities
Salesforce Help: Manually Recalculate Rollups
Salesforce Help: NPSP Logic for Creating Opportunity Contact Roles