OK here are the notes for JSI 86 this is largely just adding a couple of fields or maybe even just one field to the opportunity to distinguish what is tax deductible and what is not tax deductible per the amount of the gift this should be on every gift record type and it is specifically important for potentially a new record type that we might need for event tickets in gala registrations these can probably be a single record type that is grouped under some kind of event record type or ticket purchase or something like that but even on standard donations like anything that comes from the website or anything will also need to distinguish between tax deductible and non tax deductible amounts for the definition of done that's in the story already acknowledgments will be covered in a different build out or different story build out the year and giving statements will also be covered in a different user story or implementation and the process documentation point of the story will be covered by the client themselves

Here are the steps that we need to take for this:
1) Pull the story from jira using C:\Users\jott3\OneDrive\Documents\SF_Local\JCRC-Dev\.jira_creds.json and save the story details locally using the same format that we have been using. See JSI-80 for an example.
2) Review the notes in this document and compare to the details we pull from Jira.  Identify any outstanding questions or holes in the story that we may need to answer or have the client answer.
3) Come up with an implementation plan just like the other stories. Use JSI-80 as an example.
4) Review the entire org structure in @force-app to get a solid handle on how things are built in this org. This should show you how to structure things like flows, lightning record pages, comments, record types, etc.
5) Make sure you do some research on the best way to handle this and the best way to approach this given then NPSP structure.
6) After all clarifications are done and implementation plan is reviewed we can start implementing.